This is the diary of the development of my charting program. It is not always
accurate. When more people get involved, I will start a GNU-style ChangeLog.

07-Oct-2000:
	Now that I have a real ChangeLog, this file will no longer be updated.
	Please read the NEWS-file.

24-Sep-2000:
	Been sick. The new name of the program will be `Chartman', which was my
	brother's idea (and it's a nice South Park reference). Now I need to change
	a lot of things... Renamed the ChangeLog to DIARY. Later: investigation
	shows that there's a frightful amount of "Chartman(R)"-software already
	on the internet, so I decided to do a last rename to `gChartman'. Wether
	the `g' stands for `GNOME' or for `GNU' is left open.

21-Sep-2000:
	Added a module displaying arbitrary text as well as an arrow. Any comment can
	now be placed directly on the canvas, with an arrow pointing to relevant places.

20-Sep-2000:
	Did some polishing and added the possibility for modules to specify an
	image file that will be used as icon in the toolbar of the chart window.
	Also added pixmaps to the zooming buttons. NOTE: Need to reset the canvas'
	scrolled window when switching to another stock.

19-Sep-2000:
	I'm planning a release this week. Fixed a bug in on_chart_stock_ce_changed,
	now I have less crashes. Still no idea for a new name. Also sanitized the
	position of y-axis ticks.

18-Sep-2000:
	Been working on a website for the program. I need to find a new name for it.
	Charter is much to general, and there's lots of programs having that name
	already. I'm not looking for trouble :) . There's still some bugs left,
	some deadlocks and a few crashes... It'll be fine... soon...

16-Sep-2000:
	Had some severe breakage that had to be fixed. Everything is alright now.

14-Sep-2000:
	Added an appbar to the chart window. It displays the date and value of the day
	that the mouse pointer is over. Somehow it reacts sluggish. It displays also
	the difference in % of the last value and the value under the mouse pointer.
	Wrote a buy-sell module, which displays the price and amount of stock bought/sold
	at a specific time with an arrow and 2 numbers. A TODO: every canvas_item
	that is ever created needs to be destroyed!!!

13-Sep-2000:
	Wrote a momentum indicator, because I needed it. The API is still evolving,
	though. More changes will be needed to implement indicators on indicators
	(for example a moving average of the momentum). I also made the scaling
	buttons react differently to different mouse buttons. Also added the possibilty
	to save the current view (e.g. zoom & scroll settings) in local configurations.
	This is beginning to rock. I also added a hashtable as cache for table names,
	and a hashtable to replace the linked list that stored CHARTTYPEs. Also
	eliminated some of the redundant drawing... but not all of it. My create_quote_
	vector optimization does not work yet. Later: Got it to work, but there's still
	room for improvement.

12-Sep-2000:
	Now it is possible to write modules for indicators that need a separate
	drawing area for themselves (RSI,Momentum,...). Changes were needed on the
	x-axis, adjust_scroll_region() has been simplified and reorder_y_instances()
	has been written. The new capability `new_area' is used to indicate the need
	for a seperate drawing area. Later: Added an RSI indicator! Whoohoo!
	Tomorrow I'll do a momentum. Btw, I wrote a spec file a few days ago. Weird
	is that since I recompiled gtk/gnome with debugging symbols, my binaries
	are huge! Stripping doesn't help :(

11-Sep-2000:
	Changed some stuff. Now one can view a different chart without leaving
	the chartwindow by selecting category and stock from combos. Think I should
	change the whole system to have more handlers which do stuff necessary
	for their widget (alloc'ing & freeing stuff) instead of few handlers
	that do a lot of stuff that's foreign to them. This would make everything
	more object-oriented. Added comments. They can be set from the chart window,
	and then appear in the tabletree. Unfortunately, they are not shown (in the
	tabletree) at the start of the program. That is because I don't want to make
	update_tablelist even slower. My plan for this slowness is to do some of the
	work either on demand (tree_expand) or in the background (fork). Other speedups
	planned	are a hash table as cache for _TableNames and a linked lists as cache for
	the `_cat_%' tables plus a hash table to map category name to linked list.
	create_quote_vector is also a target for optimization.

08-Sep-2000:
	Started work on comments and stock selection from the chart dialog.

30-Aug-2000:
	Discovered the mysql-function SOUNDEX(), which I now use to do a `fuzzy'
	comparison in the unknown_stock_dialog. This facilitates the import
	of data, as well as manual error-correction of videotext data. Matching
	stocks are highlighted in the clist.

29-Aug-2000:
	The chart system is now saner. The time axis makes more sense now, because
	every day defined as active in the trading time dialog is displayed.
	Days with no data are marked. Interpolated data is provided for the
	calculation of indicators. The trendline still needs to be fixed,
	as well as the channel, which isn't ready anyway. UPDATE: Late at
	night, I think I fixed the trendline. It might behave strangely when
	you do unexpected stuff (like deleting the day from the database that
	you created the trendline on). Yes, the creation day of a trendline has
	to be saved in the database with the new charting system.

21-Aug-2000:
	Fixed a few bugs. The last days I added a dialog which is used to specify
	trading times per category. The information will be used to mark up days
	which do not have data, and to have more sensible time scaling. Data
	gathered throughout the day will be aligned to the `edges' of the trading
	time specified. I'm dropping intraday data support because it doesn't make
	sense for indicators. I might add it back later.

10-Aug-2000:
	The timestamp of a row in a table is now set to the `last modification' time
	of the file that stores the videotext page. Thus maximum error == time to
	get the videotext pages (since alevt-cap saves when all pages are received)
	+ 15 min legal offset. I might later try to read the time from the page header.
	Fixed a ton of bugs. Now I can update my database without crashes.

28-Jul-2000:
	The channel element is coming along pretty well. There is no configuration
	dialog, scaling has some issues and there is a problem when the channel is
	exactly horizontal.

27-Jul-2000:
	Removed header files from chart elements. They don't need'em. This reduces
	the file clutter. Started work on a channel element.

26-Jul-2000:
	Altered the trendline. It is now also movable by dragging the line itself.
	Oh, and it is blue now (no config dialog yet). Added grids to the y-axis.
	Made a better (but still ugly) algorithm for the calculation of the position
	of ticks on the y-axis. Added `subgrids' to the x-axis. Unfortunately the
	date that is displayed is very bogus. I guess you can't say that every
	month is the same length afterall :)

25-Jul-2000:
	Finished a moving average that I had started to work on yesterday. Made
	sure only 1 entry per day is sent to modules in the QuoteV vector.
	Added an indicator to show wether a table already exists in the unknown_
	stock_dialog. Improved the behaviour of this part somewhat by displaying
	a tablename in tname_entry if it exists and an escaped name if it does
	not exist. This means that for every keypress, a database query is done.
	This might be slow if you use a remote database. I will add a hash table
	as cache for this data sometime. Finally, I have found a source for
	historical data. I got the URL from the `Beancounter' perl program.
	It's actually at yahoo.com, and most importantly the author of beancounter
	says that he's been using it for 1.5 years without trouble.

24-Jul-2000:
	The heisenbug seems to be eliminated. I moved some stuff to a handler
	(`on_unknown_dialog_show'), which seems to have helped. This guarantees
	that all the widgets that I'm trying to set up are properly initialized.
	I think it worked most of the time because libglade does some widget
	setup. There remains some experimental cruft that I added before finding
	this solution. Have to sort out which of it is still needed.

20-Jul-2000:
	Save, Restore & Delete of global & local configurations is now possible.
	Decided to put all the global configurations into 1 table, called
	`__global_configs'. They differ by their name only, which I think is ok.
	Local configurations are saved the same way, into tables called `_%s_configs'.
	Added a configuration dialog to the main chart. Line width and color are
	configurable.

19-Jul-2000:
	Did nothing about the heisenbug. Started work on saving configurations in
	the database.

17-Jul-2000:
	Heisenbug time again. My on_unk_name_changed handler crashes sometimes
	in the gtk_entry_get_text call. Very inconsistent behaviour. Worked
	around it by disabling that part, which is bad for usability. This needs
	to be fixed sometime. There's another bug in DisplayThisPage. Somehow it
	segfaults sometimes in gnome_canvas_item_set. It does it only when corrections
	have to be done to the videotext data.

12-Jul-2000:
	Added a clist of stocks to the dialog I did the day before yesterday.

11-Jul-2000:
	Fixed a bug where the program would crash when displaying the chart of a
	stock with just 1 row of data. Chart elements may now have Data->group==NULL.

10-Jul-2000:
	Exams are over. Robustified the videotext parsing code. Everything works
	much better now. When a reception error is detected (a `?' somewhere in
	one of the fields of the videotext page), the user is shown a dialog where
	he can correct the error. The same is done for new stocks that are not
	yet in _TableNames. Fixed a rather serious bug in the parser part.

28-Jun-2000:
	Wrote a script (`swgetnemax'). It gets all the available historical quotes
	from stockwatch.de from all stocks in the Nemax All Share and turns them
	into a sql script. Haven't tested it online yet. If it works, you can
	build up a new database really easily. I learned a lot about regular
	expressions and sed. I hope they don't change their html layout too often...
	Unfortunately the script needs to download a html file before every csv file.
	This adds 20kB to every csv file, but it can't be helped now. Possibly the
	script can be parallelized, such that it retrieves 5 files at the same time.
	I might add that sometime.
	Btw: www.livecharts.com seems to have good data too. Click on Chart->To Ascii.

27-Jun-2000:
	Stockwatch.de has csv files with historical quotes of stocks. They even
	have highs, lows, openings, closings and volumes. Candlesticks!
	Start here:
	http://www.stockwatch.de/dynamic/branche.php3?dd_branche=4&g1=2&g2=0&liste_but.x=8&liste_but.y=8
	for a list of all stocks and their WKN

	then go here and find the link to the csv file:
	http://www.stockwatch.de/dynamic/ascii.php3?wkn=xxxxxx
	
	the same exists there for dax & eurostoxx
	

25-Jun-2000:
	Exams again. No time for code. Bad news: charts.neuer-markt.de is gone.
	They changed some things after the creation of iX, and they keep pointing
	to exchange.de, but I can't find anything of use there.

15-Jun-2000:
	I'm planning to do internet quote retrieval. Pretty cool: from nasdaq.com
	one can download a file with all the companies that are listed and some
	more data. This can be used to get the symbol, which can be used to get
	quotes and historical quotes. Apparently the url for downloading of historical
	quotes from neuer-markt.de has changed.

14-Jun-2000:
	Made videotext data go to '~/.charter/videotext/'. Directory is created if it
	doesn't exist. TODO: add error-handling to every function that might fail.
	Added error-handling to the videotext parsing stuff. Started work on a
	dialog that is to be shown when a new stock is encountered.

13-Jun-2000:
	TODO: write videotext data into '~/.charter/videotext/'. How do I parse the '~' ?

07-Jun-2000:
	Added a configuration dialog to the x axis. Now you can set the color and
	the font of the x axis. Quite a lot of work, but in the end everything works
	out pretty well.

06-Jun-2000:
	Fixed some bugs left from yesterday. Wrote a gawk script (scripts/speku2sql)
	to convert csv files from the windows `Spekulator' shareware program to sql
	scripts. You need a recent version of `Spekulator' and the csv export module
	to be able to export data to csv. Issues left are bad character conversion
	by `recode' (problems with Ü, Ö, Ä, etc...).

05-Jun-2000:
	Quotes are now passed to modules as a vector (QuoteV) and a number of
	quotes (QuoteC).

01-Jun-2000:
	Made elements return a structure to indicate their capabilities.

31-May-2000:
	Elements are now deleteable. Will switch from the a-lot-of-callback-functions
	model to a fill-a-structure model for element capability management.
	Decided to pass quotes through arrays instead of linked list. Will probably
	be easier. About popup menus: As it seems, the user_data field from the
	GnomeUIInfo structure is not passed to the callback function, but the user_
	data field from the gnome_popup_menu_attach is passed. Doesn't matter much
	anyway.

29-May-2000:
	Began work on the popup-menus that are to be used with the tree of chart-
	elements. Unfortunately user_data isn't passed correctly to the callback
	function.

25-May-2000:
	Did some clean-ups and some typedef'ing.

22-May-2000:
	Did some work on zooming. There's now a `rezoom' function in the modules.
	The interface is not really stable now. Things change every day.

20-May-2000:
	Added a function to the modules: get_instance_name. This is used for names
	that appear in the tree next to the chart. Examples would be:
	`Moving average (20 Days)' or `Trend line (green)'. Made that particular tree
	work more or less.

16-May-2000:
	Toolbar buttons now create new instances of chart elements. Chart elements
	identify themselves with a string that they return through a function.
	This allows for versioning of elements, and makes everything cleaner.

14-May-2000:
	Worked some on moveable chart elements. MPITA. Update: Got it working later,
	in an easy way by using gnome_canvas_item_set instead of gnome_canvas_item_move.
	Now I have a nice trendline that can be moved by dragging the ends of the line.
	What needs to be done is the following: The trendline needs to be able to
	recreate itself from a saved trendline_Data structure. Should not be *too* hard.
	Later, I will carelessly store this data as `blob' in the database. 
	The toolbar button of the trendline also needs to be attached somehow to
	a creating function of the trendline, such that a new trendline can be created
	for every click on the toolbar.

13-May-2000:
	Put some of the module handling into `Charter.c'. Made the DBConnect dialog
	start up with the password field in focus, and made it handle `Enter' inside
	the password field as if one clicked `OK', allowing for faster logins.

12-May-2000:
	Finally got back to do some coding. Created a toolbar in the chart window,
	which will hold all the available chart types. They will be created by
	clicking on the toolbar, and removed through a context menu in the List
	of active elements. An idea: Move everything concerning the modules into
	`Charter.c´. This will speed up chartwindow display and simplify code.

18-Apr-2000:
	Added a combobox to the videotext quote retrieval window. One can
	specify one category per page, and the stocks from that page will
	automatically go into that category.

17-Apr-2000:
	Cleaned up some of the mess. There are now 2 linked lists that are important:
	TypeList and InstanceList. TypeList holds the module functions for the
	different modules, and InstanceList holds the data per instance. Addendum:
	Need to calculate the position for the x-axis ticks such that it sticks
	to dates like 01.01.xxxx, 01.xx.xxxx, etc.

12-Apr-2000:
	Nailed down the nasty bug that prevented me from going on with the fun
	stuff. Actually it was a pretty stupid bug. Hint: Never dlclose a module
	before you use its functions. Now I need to think about how to implement
	all this in a clean way (multiple chart elements). Late at night:
	There is a way. Eventually, chart elements will have to rebuild themselves
	from data that got stored for them in the database (persistence). So,
	chart elements need a function for rebuilding themselves. Just as a note
	of idea: There should be 2 Lists of "chart types". The first has all
	the possible types of charts, with the addresses of their functions.
	The second has the same, plus configuration data of that particular
	instance of the chart type. God, this would be easier in OO. The second
	could also have functions that are callbacked from the module to show
	a configuration dialog. Lots of work needs to be done before the architecture
	is truly modular. One thing to keep in mind is that writing modules should
	not be too hard.

11-Apr-2000:
	Now use automake/autoconf/libtool. This took quite some time, and
	it didn't solve my module-calling problem.

03-Apr-2000:
	Found a great site for stock quotes some days ago. It's located
	at http://www-public.tu-bs.de:8080/~y0003876/index.html. Wrote
	a quick script to put it's data into my database.

24-Mar-2000:
	Worked some more towards modularization. Started working on a tree
	representing the structure of the charts currently displayed.
	Somehow error_dialog displays the wrong message. Weird. I actually
	put main_chart into a main_chart.so module, but at this time I am
	somehow unable to call a function from the module.

23-Mar-2000:
	Finally fixed the videotext parsing bug. It was located in SetStockNames,
	where a result set was (sometimes) freed twice. Did quite some work
	towards modularization of chart parts. Added stuff to the user interface,
	which allows the user to store global configurations for charts (available
	for every chart) and local configurations, which are saved per-stock.
	Addendum: As it seems, g_print wasn't the culprit after all.

14-Mar-2000:
	Videotext parsing is not 100% stable, therefore I made sure that
	_vtsettings gets updated before parsing begins, so that the users
	settings don't get lost if the program crashes during parsing.
	Now I know why parsing was broken: g_print is broken again!
	So I'm back to g_message. I need to check for badly received videotext
	pages containing question marks.

13-Mar-2000:
	Currently I'm pretty clueless. I don't know how to modify a chart-element
	once it has been created. Maybe I could destroy it and then create a
	new one...

03-Mar-2000 (???):
	Implemented a timeout for the retrieval of videotext data. The length
	of the timeout is not yet configurable. A nice progress bar displays
	how much time there is left, and if alevt-cap does not return within
	the timeout, it gets sent a nice SIGTERM.

01-Mar-2000:
	Converted the linked list of quotes that is used to give the data
	to the indicator modules to a GList. These are pretty easy to handle,
	and crash less often than my homebrewn linked lists. Sooner or later,
	every self-made linked list will be replaced by a GList. I use glib
	anyway and this way I can do something for entropy by re-utilising
	existing code. Also moved the main chart into the "elements" directory.
	Right now I have billions of memory leaks. The problem is that destroying
	a GnomeCanvasGroup does *not* recursively free all the GnomeCanvasItems
	in that Group. I might have to store a "GList of GLists" for every
	graphical element of a chart, containing *all* the data describing that
	element. Update: Now "createxxx" returns a structure containing its
	group and a GList of everything that needs to be freed to avoid memory
	leaks. Cleaned up lots of the memory leaks, broke something. After
	closing the chart window, somehow the string containing the stock name
	in the TableTree gets lost.Fixed a bug where a failed mysql-login would
	crash the program. Update: Fixed the allocation bug (did one too many
	g_free() in one of the kludges). Update: Cleaned up some stuff.
	Suddenly I tripped over "gnome_canvas_points_free", which solved a lot
	of my problems.

29-Feb-2000:
	The X axis is now working pretty well. Scaling is not yet implemented
	though. Started moving stuff into different directories.  Graphical
	elements of the chart are going into "./elements". Later: Cloned the
	X-axis code to make an Y-axis. Without scaling, too. Turned the singly
	linked list of Quotes that is passed to indicators into a doubly
	linked list, fixing a bug.

27-Feb-2000:
	More work on chart display. Started doing axis display.

23-Feb-2000:
	Worked some more on the chart display. Drag & drop has a problem:
	There is no automatic scrolling in the TableTree. It is impossible
	to drag something to some place not visible right now. Who's problem
	is this? Mine? Gtk's? I dunno.

22-Feb-2000:
	Worked on the chart display mechanism. Also wrote a script that
	gets a csv-file from www.neuer-markt.de containing one value
	and one volume for every day that a stock has been on the market.
	The csv-file is transformed into an sql-script using awk. This
	is really a good way to get old quotes from stocks that I'm interested
	in.

13-Feb-2000:
	Drag and Drop is now pretty stable and has consistent behaviour.
	Duplications no longer occur. No more vanishing also.

08-Feb-2000:
	Solidified some more drag & drop stuff. Still behaves bad though.
	Things shouldn't vanish from "All Stocks" when they get dragged out
	of it, and things shouldn't duplicate in the CTree when they are
	dragged twice to the same place. They don't duplicate in the database
	because I check for that case. There are now seperate functions for
	looking up category names, which are more failproof.

07-Feb-2000:
	Hacked away at the drag & drop code. Managed to get stuff draggable
	from/to places with checking where it came from/goes to.

03-Feb-2000:
	Added the "Delete Stock" and "Add Category" buttons. They will help
	manage the CTree that lists all the stocks. Now use a table with
	aliases (_TableNames) to display a prettier name for the stocks.
	There are functions for looking up both kinds of names in the table.
	Had to fix some weirdness in GLib. Now I need to see if there is a newer
	version, if not I'll have to send the patch to the GLib people. Having
	worked-around the GLib bug, started looking at drag n'drop stuff,
	to make reordering of stocks less arbitrary and limit it to 1 level of
	tree deepness. Adding Categories works, deleting stocks does not yet.
	I need pixmaps for my toolbar.

02-Feb-2000:
	Exams are over. Replaced the CList that displays the stocks in the
	database by a CTree. This will become a possibility to put stocks
	into different categories.

21-Jan-2000:
	Made the program fail graciously when alevt-cap has problems.
	Now have a scrolling canvas to put charts in.

20-Jan-2000:
	Added function comments to all of getvtquotes.c. Now nearly everything is
	commented. Not much time for coding due to exams. Worked a bit on the UI,
	and started the charting program part.

14-Jan-2000:
	I wonder if a bison-generated parser would be good to parse the video-
	text pages. Fixed some bugs in get_string in the meantime.

08-Jan-2000:
	Added some more function comments to ConnectDB.h, about.c and about.h.

07-Jan-2000:
	I wonder if awk could be used to parse the Videotext pages. It could
	really simplify things. Have to get some docs. Added function comments
	to Charter.c, Charter.h and ConnectDB.c.
	
04-Jan-2000:
	Started the changelog. Fixed lots of bugs. The program now actually
	works. It gets videotext pages using alevt-cap, reads stock market
	quotes from them and saves them to a MySQL database.

Development started mid-december 1999.
